[Docs] Update 'Using Teleport Connect' for Linux & Windows (#16770)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/connect-your-client/teleport-connect.mdx

## Installation & upgrade

Head over to the [Downloads](https://goteleport.com/download/) page to download the most recent
version. Teleport Connect supports macOS, Linux, and Windows.

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="macOS">
Double-click the downloaded `.dmg` file and drag the Teleport Connect icon to the Applications folder.

To upgrade Teleport Connect to a newer version, drag the new version to the Applications folder.
</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Linux">
Download the DEB (Debian-based distros) or RPM (RHEL-based distros) package and install it using
your package manager. Repeat the process for in-place upgrades.

> You can also download the project as a `tar.gz` file to extract and run it in place.

Reviewer: I think a copyable code snippet for the `tar` command would be good here

https://xkcd.com/1168/

Author: You mean like this?

````suggestion
You can also download the project as a `tar.gz` file to extract and run it in place:

```command
$ tar -xf  teleport-(=teleport.version=)-linux-*.tar.gz
```
````

## Installation & upgrade

Head over to the [Downloads](https://goteleport.com/download/) page to download the most recent
version. Teleport Connect supports macOS, Linux, and Windows.

<Tabs>

> <TabItem label="macOS">

Reviewer 2: I think the tab items are a good solution for now.

In the future it'd probably be better to have a per platform scope like we do have for Cloud/Enterprise/OSS so that Windows users don't have to click through every `<Tabs>` component and select Windows each item.

But I'll leave that for the docs team to figure it out, maybe a need for that will arise in another area of the docs.

Author: I've created [an issue](https://github.com/gravitational/docs/issues/162) in the Docs repo to review this idea.

Double-click the downloaded `.dmg` file and drag the Teleport Connect icon to the Applications folder.

To upgrade Teleport Connect to a newer version, drag the new version to the Applications folder.
</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Linux">
Download the DEB (Debian-based distros) or RPM (RHEL-based distros) package and install it using
your package manager. Repeat the process for in-place upgrades.

You can also download the project as a `tar.gz` file to extract and run it in place.
</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Windows">
Download and run the installer `.exe` file. It will install and open Teleport Connect without
further user input.

Repeat the process with newer versions to upgrade.
</TabItem>
<TabItem label="From Source">

> </TabItem>

Reviewer 2: Do we want to leave this empty or can we outright remove it? It doesn't seem to have an effect on the UI.

Author: This was a relic from when I was building the doc and thought that the tarball was source code and not a binary for Linux. Will remove:

```suggestion
```

The top bar of Teleport Connect consists of:

- The **profile selector** (the top right), which allows you to switch between profiles on different
  Teleport clusters as well as log in or out of the clusters.
- The **connection list** (the top left) showing recent connections, allowing you to seamlessly switch
  between them.
- The **command bar** (in the middle), which launches any command you input in a new terminal tab.
- The **cluster selector** (to the left of the command bar), which shows up only if you have set up
  Trusted Clusters and there are leaf clusters connected to the root cluster. It lets you browse
  leaf cluster resources. It also changes which cluster the commands in the command bar are going to target.

## Connecting to an SSH server

1. Open a tab with cluster resources by clicking on the plus symbol at the right end of the tab bar.
  You can also press `Ctrl/Cmd + T` to achieve the same result.
1. Look for the SSH server you want to connect to and click the Connect button to the right.
1. Select or enter the SSH user you wish to log in as and press `Enter`.
1. A new tab will open with a shell session on the chosen server.

> Alternatively, on macOS you can type `tsh ssh` into the command bar and the autocompletion will help

Reviewer 2: This works on every platform. Perhaps it wasn't clear that we mean the command bar in Connect?

Author: That was indeed my confusion. I'm not a Mac user, and thought that "command bar" was some Mac thingy.

```suggestion
Alternatively, you can type `tsh ssh` into the command bar in the Teleport Connect window, and the autocompletion will help
```

Web UI.

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="macOS">
To force the app to log you out of all clusters, close the app and remove the `~/Library/Application
Support/Teleport Connect/tsh` folder. Removing the file `~/Library/Application
Support/Teleport Connect/app_state.json` will clear all remembered tabs and connections.
</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Linux">
To force the app to log you out of all clusters, close the app and remove the `~/.config/Teleport
Connect/tsh` folder. Removing the file `/.config/Teleport Connect/app_state.json` will clear
all remembered tabs and connections.
</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Windows">
To force the app to log you out of all clusters, close the app and remove the
`C:\Users\%UserName%\AppData\Roaming\Teleport Connect\tsh` folder. Removing the file
`C:\Users\%UserName%\AppData\Roaming\Teleport Connect\app_state.json` will clear all remembered tabs
and connections.
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Submitting an issue

To submit an issue, click the Submit Feedback button at the bottom right (the speech bubble symbol)
and follow the *Submit a Bug* link.

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="macOS">

> Be sure to attach logs which can be found under `~/Library/Application Support/Teleport Connect/logs`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Be sure to attach logs, which can be found under `~/Library/Application Support/Teleport Connect/logs`.
```

The version of the app can be found in the app menu under the About Teleport Connect menu item.
</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Linux">

> Be sure to attach logs which can be found under `~/.config/Teleport Connect/logs`. The app version

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Be sure to attach logs, which can be found under `~/.config/Teleport Connect/logs`. The app version
```

can be found by pressing `Alt` to access the app menu, then -> Help -> About Teleport Connect.
</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Windows">
Be sure to attach logs, which can be found under `C:\Users\%UserName%\AppData\Roaming\Teleport Connect\logs`.

> You may need to adjust File Explorer to[view hidden files and folders](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/search?query=how%20to%20view%20hidden%20files%20in%20windows%2010).

Reviewer 2: Missing space.

```suggestion
You may need to adjust File Explorer to [view hidden files and folders](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/search?query=how%20to%20view%20hidden%20files%20in%20windows%2010).
```

It might also help if you have issues with connecting to an active cluster that don't happen in the
Web UI.

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="macOS">
To force the app to log you out of all clusters, close the app and remove the `~/Library/Application
Support/Teleport Connect/tsh` folder. Removing the file `~/Library/Application
Support/Teleport Connect/app_state.json` will clear all remembered tabs and connections.
</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Linux">
To force the app to log you out of all clusters, close the app and remove the `~/.config/Teleport
Connect/tsh` folder. Removing the file `/.config/Teleport Connect/app_state.json` will clear
all remembered tabs and connections.
</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Windows">
To force the app to log you out of all clusters, close the app and remove the
`C:\Users\yourUser\AppData\Roaming\Teleport Connect\tsh` folder. Removing the file

> `C:\Users\yourUser\AppData\Roaming\Teleport Connect\app_state.json` will clear all remembered tabs

Reviewer 2: Same consideration to use `%AppData%` as in my other comment.

Author: I think utilizing `%UserName%` here makes more sense, to give readers a better understanding of file paths. `%AppData%` makes sense when we're just trying to run a command and path knowledge doesn't matter as much.
```suggestion
`C:\Users\%UserName%\AppData\Roaming\Teleport Connect\tsh` folder. Removing the file
`C:\Users\%UserName%\AppData\Roaming\Teleport Connect\app_state.json` will clear all remembered tabs
```

and connections.
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Submitting an issue

To submit an issue, click the Submit Feedback button at the bottom right (the speech bubble symbol)
and follow the *Submit a Bug* link.

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="macOS">
Be sure to attach logs which can be found under `~/Library/Application Support/Teleport Connect/logs`.
The version of the app can be found in the app menu under the About Teleport Connect menu item.
</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Linux">
Be sure to attach logs which can be found under `~/.config/Teleport Connect/logs`. The app version

> can be found by pressing `Alt` to access the app menu -> Help -> About Teleport Connect

Reviewer 2: Should we add a coma here?

```suggestion
can be found by pressing `Alt` to access the app menu -> Help -> About Teleport Connect.
```

Author: Couldn't hurt:

```suggestion
can be found by pressing `Alt` to access the app menu, then -> Help -> About Teleport Connect.
```

Reviewer 2: Damn sorry, I meant a full stop not a comma, I often confuse these two in English for some reason. 😶 But I suppose it fits here!

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Windows">

> Be sure to attach logs which can be found under `C:\Users\yourUser\AppData\Roaming\Teleport Connect\logs`.

Reviewer 2: Based on my previous comment, technically we could do this here:

```suggestion
Be sure to attach logs which can be found under `%AppData%\Teleport Connect\logs`.
```

But I think a regular user wouldn't know how to navigate to `%AppData%` so perhaps it's better to leave it as it is. Or maybe we should just use it and don't assume stuff unnecessarily, what do you think?

OTOH, at one of my previous jobs we just added a button to the Help menu which opened the logs folder.

Reviewer 2: One problem is that `AppData` is a hidden folder and those are (I think) hidden by default on Windows. 🤔 So if they're just following the path by opening each subsequent folder in the file explorer they might run into a problem anyway.

Author: I think the solution here is in the Stack Exchange link you posted on the other comment; use the `%UserName%` var to show the path while also being paste-able. We can also reference hidden files:

```suggestion
Be sure to attach logs which can be found under `C:\Users\%UserName%\AppData\Roaming\Teleport Connect\logs`.
You may need to adjust File Explorer to[view hidden files and folders](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/search?query=how%20to%20view%20hidden%20files%20in%20windows%2010).
```

Reviewer 2: Oh, that's smart!

> The app version can be found by pressing `Alt` to access the app menu -> Help -> About Teleport Connect

Reviewer 2: And here?

```suggestion
The app version can be found by pressing `Alt` to access the app menu -> Help -> About Teleport Connect.
```

# Passing the flag to the executable directly:
$ /Applications/Teleport\ Connect.app/Contents/MacOS/Teleport\ Connect --insecure
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Linux">
From a terminal, open Teleport connect with the `--insecure` flag:

```code
$ teleport-connect --insecure
````
</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Windows">

> </TabItem>

Author: This is an outstanding question: How does one enable insecure mode in Windows?

# Passing the flag to the executable directly:
$ /Applications/Teleport\ Connect.app/Contents/MacOS/Teleport\ Connect --insecure
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Linux">
From a terminal, open Teleport Connect with the `--insecure` flag:

```code
$ teleport-connect --insecure
````
</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Windows">

> From the Command prompt, open Teleport Connect with the `--insecure` flag:

Reviewer 2: By the Command prompt you mean the Windows program, right? I just booted up the VM to check the exact name of it.

```suggestion
From the Command Prompt, open Teleport Connect with the `--insecure` flag:
```

```code

> $ "C:\Users\yourUser\AppData\Local\Programs\teleport-connect\Teleport Connect.exe" --insecure

Reviewer 2: The downside of this is that the user cannot just copy and paste it because they need to replace `yourUser` with their username.

I looked up if we can improve it and it turns out we can.

```suggestion
$ "%LocalAppData%\Programs\teleport-connect\Teleport Connect.exe" --insecure
```

https://superuser.com/questions/681744/how-to-generically-refer-to-the-appdata-folder-on-the-windows-command-line
